The Sukkur IBA University (previously Sukkur Institute of Business Administration or Sukkur IBA) is a higher education institute in Sukkur, Pakistan. It was inaugurated in 1994 by Nisar Ahmed Siddique (founder of this university). The university is a public sector degree-awarding institute chartered by the Government of Sindh and recognized by the Higher Education Commission.

The university has been awarded "W" Category by National Business Education Accreditation Council & National Computing Education Accreditation Council, "X" Category by National Accreditation Council for Teaching Education, and is recognized by Pakistan Engineering Council. 

In 1994, Sukkur IBA University was established as Sukkur Institute of Business Administration. It was located initially in hired rooms of the Public School Sukkur building in Sukkur. At first, Sukkur IBA was affiliated to Institute of Business Administration, Karachi; with founding Director, Syed Anwar Ali Shah. The institute received its degree-awarding charter from the Government of Sindh in 2006.

The institute was ranked third among business schools of Pakistan in the Higher Education Commission Pakistan Business School Ranking-2013.[1]

On 16 May 2017, Sindh Assembly approved the promotion of Sukkur IBA to Sukkur IBA University.[2] The famous educationist of Sindh, Nisar Ahmed Siddique served as Vice-Chancellor and played a huge role transforming the university from a 2-room seedling.[3]

The university received "Green Campus" award from World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in 2017 for its environment-friendly initiatives.[4] Sukkur IBA has no connection with IBA, Karachi in any terms, and the only thing they both share is the name else IBA, Karachi is totally separate entity and does not own nor has an affiliation with Sukkur IBA.
Departments
Academic Block-I at SIBAU

The university currently has nine main departments:

    Faculty of Business Administration
    Faculty of Computer Science
    Faculty of Computer System Engineering
    Faculty of Media and Communications
    Faculty of Software Engineering
    Faculty of Electrical Engineering
    Faculty of Mathematics
    Faculty of Physical Education
    Faculty of Education

These departments offer degrees on bachelor, masters, and post-graduation levels.
Sukkur IBA Student Council (SISC)
Sukkur IBA University offers its students the experience of being involved with the management of the university through Sukkur IBA Student Council (SISC). The council offers students a total of eighteen societies and clubs that they can join. These range from SIBA Marketing Society, Entrepreneurship Society to SIBA Music, Arts & Drama Society in order to help students enjoy their educational career to the brim. 

Talent Hunt Program

Creating an opportunity for the Sindhi youth, Sukkur IBA University launched its flagship program, Sindh Talent Hunt Program (STHP), in the year 2007. Under this program, deserving students with humble backgrounds would be awarded fully funded scholarship. The scholarship would include free tuition, free hostel, free transportation, free books along with monthly stipend. 300 deserving students from Sindh are enrolled in "Foundation Semester" of Sukkur IBA University. The foundation semester entails a six-months-long, rigorous training in basic subjects i.e. Mathematics, English, and Information & Communications Technology (ICT).

Every student that maintains 3.0 CGPA is then awarded with the full tuition fee waiver scholarship for the whole four-year program. This scholarship enabled talented students from humble backgrounds to study at Sukkur IBA University free of cost.

After the success of Sindh Talent Hunt Program, the institute partnered with Oil and Gas Development Company Ltd. (OGDCL) and launched the Talent Hunt Program nationwide. The program got titled "OGDCL National Talent Hunt Program", wherein, 300 students not only from Sindh but from whole Pakistan get selected and enrolled in foundation semester with even higher stipend and benefits than the Sindh Talent Hunt Program.[5]
Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership & Incubation (CEL&Inc.)

Sukkur IBA University has a fully functional incubation center on its campus. The Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership & Incubation (CEL&Inc) was established in the year 2012 and has since successfully incubated 38 companies.

The center is also actively involved with national and international firms in order to provide mentor-ship to its incubatees. CEL&Inc has also successfully trained almost 1700 individuals in Technical & Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in skills required by the job market.
Community colleges & public schools
Sukkur IBA University is the pioneer of the "Community College" idea in Sindh. The institute has established community colleges in far flung areas in efforts to provide access to quality education to underprivileged students of Sindh, who cannot afford private education. The university has established a total of 13 community colleges & public schools in Khairpur Mirs, Naushero Feroze, Dadu, Ubauro, Larkana, Shikarpur, Ghotki, Sukkur, Hyderabad and Jacobabad. These Community Colleges & Public Schools provide basic (primary & secondary) education and also offer vocational and technical training courses with market-oriented curriculum and highly qualified faculty. 




